This is a pretty readable review/summary of some of the technologies and problems related to neuroprosthetics. Keep in mind that this is over 10 years old now, but a lot of the issues are still relevant and will help contextualize papers we look at later.

Richard Normann is from the University of Utah and is the primary inventor of the Utah Electrode Array (UEA). This is essentially a 10x10 array of needle-like electrodes that penetrate into the nervous tissue. He refers to the Utah Slanted Electrode Array (USEA) as well which is very similar, but the electrodes slant so that they can interface with different nerve fibers. This makes sense if you look at Fig. 1 below which shows the anatomy of a nerve fiber. If you think of it as a bunch of fibers (wires) wrapped up in a sheath, then you start to see how shorter electrodes would contact different fibers (those closer to the top) than deeper penetrating electrodes. 

Other thing to note: 
He throws out "CNS" and "PNS" without defining them. This is just the central and peripheral nervous system respectively. We touched on this a bit last time, but it's pretty safe to think of the PNS as anything outside of the brain and spinal cord. 

When you're visualiziing these electrodes being implanted into tissue, it's important to understand that neural tissue is not the same as something like the skin on your arm. While nerves are different (Fig. 1), you can think of brain tissue almost like a mesh. Because there are a bunch of long interconnected cells, there is space in between them large enough for electrodes to slide through. Electrical signals then travel along these extended cell bodies and if an electrode is near enough, it can detect the changes in electrical potential that result from these signals. Anyway, we wont get too "deep" into this topic here, but it's just good to understand that inserting needles into the brain doesn't do as much damage (at least not initially) as you might think. 

Another thing to have a good intuitive understanding of is the action potential. We could talk about this one for a while, but all you really need to know for now is that this is the electrical signal that travels along neurons (and other electrically excitable cells) that allows it to communicate with other cells. Each neuron will receive electrical signals from loads of other neurons, but a signal from a single neuron is not enough to activate another one. If you think of these signals as summing together, each influencing the membrane potential of the affected neuron, then an action potential is the 'potential' at which we get some 'action'. Picture one of those cartoon scenes where for some reason one character slides right up to the edge of a cliff, then another character slides up and bumps him a little closer to the edge, then another him, and another and then finally they're all pushed off the cliff. It's exactly like that. The shape of the action potential graph in the paper isn't important yet (unless it makes sense to you). There are a ton of fun things that go into making it in that particular shape and maybe some day we will talk about them. But not today.